[docs] Add EAS Tutorial (#27059)
expo/expo: docs/pages/tutorial/eas/internal-distribution-builds.mdx

---
title: Create and share internal distribution build
sidebar_title: Internal distribution build
description: Learn about what are internal distribution builds, why we need them, and how to create them.
---

import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

> In this chapter, we're going to learn how to set up [internal distribution builds](/guides/sharing-preview-releases/#internal-distribution). Creating an internal build is quite similar to creating a development build. However, the difference is how it is used and distributed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter, we're going to learn how to set up [internal distribution builds](/guides/sharing-preview-releases/#internal-distribution). Creating an internal build is quite similar to creating a development build. The difference is that you don't need to run the development server locally for it to work.
```

## Internal distribution build

> An internal distribution build is great for sharing an app's progress with our team (technical and non-technical stakeholders) to gather feedback without running a development server. Our team can directly install the build and run it like an app on their device.

Reviewer: Our -> Your?

Author: For the tutorial (this one and the previous one), we are continuing the tradition of using first-person voice. I know it might be confusing to go against the writing style guide but I didn't want to create parity between the two tutorials 😄

## Ways to distribute an app internally

> 

Reviewer: Seems like there should be a sentence here about how both Apple and Google have built-in mechanisms for sharing an app internally etc.

## Steps to create an internal distribution build

To create and distribute a build with EAS Build, we need to:

- Configure a build profile
- Add test devices for iOS to a provisioning profile
- Trigger a build for Android and iOS and install them on devices

<Step label="1">

## Configure a build a profile

In the previous chapter, we learned that after initializing **eas.json** in our project, it already contains some default configuration. In this configuration, there is a pre-configured build profile called `preview`:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "preview": {
      "distribution": "internal"
    }
  }
}
```

This is all we need to create our first internal distribution build. The `preview` build profile from the above snippet has a `distribution` property whose value is set to `internal`. This value allows us to share our build URLs with anyone so they to install it on their device and do not require a development server to run the app.

> As discussed in the previous chapters, for non-app store builds, Android requires **.apk** and iOS needs **.ipa** formats. This applies to internal distribution builds as well. The `distribution` when set to `internal`, automatically creates the app binary in these file formats.

Reviewer: "The distribution when set to internal, automatically creates the app binary in these file formats." -> only for device builds. On a simulator it builds an `app` as you said.

Author: Add the context, thank you for catching this!
